update doc for list partition table (#5087)
pingcap/docs: partitioned-table.md

## Partitioning types

> This section introduces the types of partitioning which are available in TiDB. Currently, TiDB supports [Range partitioning](#range-partitioning), [List partitioning](#list-partitioning), [List COLUMNS partitioning](#list-columns-partitioning), and [Hash partitioning](#hash-partitioning).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section introduces the types of partitioning in TiDB. Currently, TiDB supports [Range partitioning](#range-partitioning), [List partitioning](#list-partitioning), [List COLUMNS partitioning](#list-columns-partitioning), and [Hash partitioning](#hash-partitioning).
```

* You want to use a column that contains time or date values, or containing values arising from some other series.
* You need to frequently run queries on the columns used for partitioning. For example, when executing a query like `EXPLAIN SELECT COUNT(*) FROM employees WHERE separated BETWEEN '2000-01-01' AND '2000-12-31' GROUP BY store_id;`, TiDB can quickly know that only the data in the `p2` partition needs to be scanned, because the other partitions do not match the `WHERE` condition.

### List partitioning

> **Warning:**
>
> List partitioning is an experimental feature. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment.

Before creating a List partitioned table, you need to set the value of the session variable `tidb_enable_table_partition` to `ON`.

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
set @@session.tidb_enable_table_partition = ON
```

> List partitioning is similar to Range partitioning. Unlike Range partitioning, in List partitioning, each partition contains rows for which the partitioning expression value belongs to a given value list. This value list defined for each partition has any number of values but cannot have duplicate values. You can use the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause to define these value lists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
List partitioning is similar to Range partitioning. Unlike Range partitioning, in List partitioning, the partitioning expression values for all rows in each partition are in a given value set. This value set defined for each partition has any number of values but cannot have duplicate values. You can use the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause to define these value sets.
```

{{< copyable "sql" >}}

```sql
CREATE TABLE employees (
    id INT NOT NULL,
    hired DATE NOT NULL DEFAULT '1970-01-01',
    store_id INT
)
PARTITION BY LIST (store_id) (
    PARTITION pNorth VALUES IN (1, 2, 3, 4, 5),
    PARTITION pEast VALUES IN (6, 7, 8, 9, 10),
    PARTITION pWest VALUES IN (11, 12, 13, 14, 15),
    PARTITION pCentral VALUES IN (16, 17, 18, 19, 20)
);
```

After creating the partitions as above, you can easily add or delete records related to a specific region in the table. For example, suppose that all stores in the East region (East) are sold to another company. Then all the row data related to the store employees of this region can be deleted by executing `ALTER TABLE employees TRUNCATE PARTITION pEast`, which is much more efficient than the equivalent statement `DELETE FROM employees WHERE store_id IN (6, 7, 8, 9, 10)`.

You can also execute `ALTER TABLE employees DROP PARTITION pEast` to delete all related rows, but this statement also deletes the `pEast` partition from the table definition. In this situation, you must execute the `ALTER TABLE ... ADD PARTITION` statement to recover the original partitioning scheme of the table.

> Unlike Range partitioning, List partitioning does not have a similar `MAXVALUE` partition to store all values that do not belong to other partitions. Instead, all expected values of the partition expression must be included in the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause. If the value to be inserted in an `INSERT` statement does not match the column value of any partition, the statement fails to execute and an error is reported. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike Range partitioning, List partitioning does not have a similar `MAXVALUE` partition to store all values that do not belong to other partitions. Instead, all expected values of the partition expression must be included in the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause. If the value to be inserted in an `INSERT` statement does not match the column value set of any partition, the statement fails to execute and an error is reported. See the following example:
```

> Unlike Range partitioning, List partitioning does not have a similar `MAXVALUE` partition to store all values that do not belong to other partitions. Instead, all expected values of the partition expression must be included in the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause. If the value to be inserted in an `INSERT` statement does not match the value of any partition, the statement fails to execute and an error is reported. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike Range partitioning, List partitioning does not have a similar `MAXVALUE` partition to store all values that do not belong to other partitions. Instead, all expected values of the partition expression must be included in the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause. If the value to be inserted in an `INSERT` statement does not match the column value of any partition, the statement fails to execute and an error is reported. See the following example:
```

> Unlike Range partitioning, List partitioning does not have a similar `MAXVALUE` partition to store all values that do not belong to other partitions. Instead, all expected values of the partition expression must be included in the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause. If the value to be inserted in an `INSERT` statement does not match the value of any partition, the statement fails to execute and an error is reported. See the following example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unlike Range partitioning, List partitioning does not have a similar `MAXVALUE` partition to store all values that do not belong to other partitions. Instead, all expected values of the partition expression must be included in the `PARTITION ... VALUES IN (...)` clause. If the value to be inserted in an `INSERT` statement does not match the column value of any partition, the statement fails to execute and an error is reported. See the following example:
```

```sql
test> CREATE TABLE t (
    ->   a INT,
    ->   b INT
    -> )
    -> PARTITION BY LIST (a) (
    ->   PARTITION p0 VALUES IN (1, 2, 3),
    ->   PARTITION p1 VALUES IN (4, 5, 6)
    -> );
Query OK, 0 rows affected (0.11 sec)

test> INSERT INTO t VALUES (7, 7);
ERROR 1525 (HY000): Table has no partition for value 7
```

> To ignore the error type above, you can use the `IGNORE` keyword. After using this keyword, if a row contains values that do not match the partition's value lists, this row will not be inserted. Instead, any row with matched values is inserted, and no error is reported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ignore the error type above, you can use the `IGNORE` keyword. After using this keyword, if a row contains values that do not match the column value set of any partition, this row will not be inserted. Instead, any row with matched values is inserted, and no error is reported:
```

```sql
test> TRUNCATE t;
Query OK, 1 row affected (0.00 sec)

test> INSERT IGNORE INTO t VALUES (1, 1), (7, 7), (8, 8), (3, 3), (5, 5);
Query OK, 3 rows affected, 2 warnings (0.01 sec)
Records: 5  Duplicates: 2  Warnings: 2

test> select * from t;
+------+------+
| a    | b    |
+------+------+
|    5 |    5 |
|    1 |    1 |
|    3 |    3 |
+------+------+
3 rows in set (0.01 sec)
```

### List COLUMNS partitioning

> **Warning:**
>
> List COLUMNS partitioning is an experimental feature. It is not recommended that you use it in the production environment.

> List COLUMNS partitioning is a variant of List partitioning. You can use multiple columns as partition keys and use columns of the data types other than integer as partition columns. You can also use columns of the string, `DATE`, and `DATETIME` types.

Reviewer: According to the confirmation from @crazycs520, List COLUMNS also supports the integer type, so "other than" in this paragraph is confusing. 

```suggestion
List COLUMNS partitioning is a variant of List partitioning. You can use multiple columns as partition keys. Besides the integer data type, you can also use the columns in the string, `DATE`, and `DATETIME` data types as partition columns.
```

### Compatibility with MySQL

> Currently, TiDB only supports Range partitioning, List partitioning, List COLUMNS partitioning and Hash partitioning. Other partitioning types that are available in MySQL such as key partitioning are not supported yet in TiDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, TiDB supports Range partitioning, List partitioning, List COLUMNS partitioning, and Hash partitioning. Other partitioning types that are available in MySQL such as key partitioning are not supported yet in TiDB.
```

5 rows in set (0.00 sec)
```

> The `tidb_enable_table_partition` environment variable controls whether to enable the partitioned table feature. If this variable is set to `OFF`, the partition information will be ignored when a table is created, and this table will be created as a normal table.

Reviewer: According to the original PR, the variable name here is changed to `tidb_enable_list_partition`.
```suggestion
The `tidb_enable_list_partition` environment variable controls whether to enable the partitioned table feature. If this variable is set to `OFF`, the partition information will be ignored when a table is created, and this table will be created as a normal table.
```
